(musical chime)
Alright, let's do a quick review
of custom promises.
Any function that returns a promise has a promise-based API
and can be used interchangeably with either
then then then catch or the async await,
which we're gonna learn about in a second.
So, let's take an example of a function where you want to
maybe, like, sleep or breathe or wait for a couple seconds.
It's not a function that's gonna execute and run
immediately, we sort of, like, want to make a breathe
function that waits for four sections, and then after
that four seconds is finished, we will then do whatever
the next task at hand is.
So, previously, the way that worked is, we would have,
like, a breathe function, we would breathe for a second,
and then, when that's over, we would have a function
that's a callback, and then if we wanted a breathe
inside of that, well, we would just copy that
and then breathe inside there, and maybe that one
would be, like, two seconds, and you get the point, right?
All of a sudden, we start getting, like, I could just start
pasting them in, paste them in, I might pretty
or clean it up, what we're writing is callback hell.
We don't want to be doing that, we want to be writing it
as sort of, like, flat as possible.
So, a really nice solution to that is allow your function
to return a promise, so we're gonna make a function called
breathe, and that's going to take an amount
that we should breathe, and from that, we're just going to
immediately return a new promise, and that promise
takes the function as well, so we're going to have a resolve
function for when the promise is successfully done,
and we have a reject function for when anything goes wrong
inside of this promise and we need to abort
or bail on the function together.
So, good, we've got that up and running here.
Now what we're going to do is just wait for the amount
of time that they want to breathe before we resolve.
So we'll use a setTimeout for that, and we are going
to just run a little in-line arrow function
where we will resolve and say done.
And when you resolve a function, you sometimes want
to pass back a value to the actual user, so actually,
maybe we should interpolate the extra value that we have,
so, done for amount milliseconds.
Good, and then we also want to run that after the amount.
So this is just a little timer that will wait however long,
then we pass it, and then console log done for that amount.
So let's go ahead and try to use this.
We'll say breathe, we want to breathe for maybe a second,
and then, when that is finished, we are going to get
the response that comes back, and let's just console.log
the response to see what that looks like.
So, open this up, I'll refresh, and after a second,
we get done for a hundred milliseconds.
Now, what if we wanted to do four or five of those,
one after another?
Well, what we can do here is we can just return another
breathe function, which will go for maybe 500 milliseconds.
And we'll chain a .then onto that.
There was a response.
You get the point, right?
We can console log here and see what what we got.
So, one second, half a second later, we've got those values.
Let's just go nuts a little bit here.
You can just copy/paste these, chain them on as far
as we want, and then just change the values
for however many we want.
That's not what I want, we want a return, a breathe of
maybe 600 milliseconds, and then we can just chain these on
for as long as we could possibly want.
So here, 500, 600, 200, 500,
2000, 250, 300, 600, good.
So let's see what we got here.
There, we've nicely chained these along with a fairly
good-looking API, which is our then then then then.
Well, what about this reject here?
We've only resolved, and in a perfect world, your functions
will always work out perfectly, but what if something
were to go wrong?
So, let's say, for example, you should pass
at a minimum, 500 milliseconds, anything under
500 milliseconds is going to be an error.
So what we can do here is we can say if the amount
is less than 500, we can reject, and the way that would
reject is say, that is too small of a value.
Now when we run this thing, we get one second,
500 milliseconds, 600, and then, bzz, we get an error here.
Uncaught in promise, that is too small a value, right?
So the error got thrown, but we didn't actually catch it,
we didn't do anything with it, and ideally,
we would show that to the user as some sort of mistake.
So what we can do is, if anywhere along these then then
then then then then thens, something that goes wrong,
we tack a .catch onto the end, which'll give us our error,
and we can just say console.error, which is the err,
and maybe just console error, you screwed up.
You scwrewed up!
Dwight Schrute.
Alright, here we go, you scwrewed up.
That's too small a value, good.
So we've actually caught the error.
So that's the basics of promises.
If you want more experience with that, go back to all
the videos that we have on promises, but what we're gonna do
now is dive into how can we make this look a little bit
better with something called async await.